[DOC] Updated README.md (#89)
neurobagel/query-tool: README.md

    </a>
    <a href="https://nodejs.org/en//">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/node-20.9-CD5C5C?style=flat-square" alt="Node">
    <a href="LICENSE">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/neurobagel/query-tool?color=4682B4&style=flat-square" alt="GitHub license">
    </a>
</div>
<br>

The query tool is a React application, developed in [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) using a variety of tools including [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/), [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/), and [MUI](https://mui.com/).

[Quickstart](#quickstart) |
[Local Installation](#local-installation) |
[Usage](#usage) |
[Testing](#testing) |
[License](#license)

</div>

Please refer to our [**official documentation**](https://neurobagel.org/query_tool/) for more detailed information on how to use the query tool.

## Quickstart

The query tool is hosted at https://query.neurobagel.org/ and interfaces with [Neurobagel federation API](https://federate.neurobagel.org/docs).

## Local Installation

To run the query tool locally, you have two options:

1. Do a manual install from the cloned git repo.

> 2. Use our docker image

Reviewer: should docker come first? that's our default / supported deployment route for users

but before proceeding with either you need to set the environment variables.

> ### Environment Variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Mandatory configuration
```
I think this is clearer and also makes it obvious that this step is required, whether you use manual install or other setup later

| Environment variable                            | Type    | Required | Default value if not set | Example                          |
| ----------------------------------------------- | ------- | -------- | ------------------------ | -------------------------------- |
| [`NB_API_QUERY_URL`](#nb_api_query_url)         | string  | Yes      | -                        | https://federate.neurobagel.org/ |
| [`NB_IS_FEDERATION_API`](#nb_is_federation_api) | boolean | No       | true                     | true                             |

#### `NB_API_QUERY_URL`

You'll need to set the `NB_API_QUERY_URL` environment variable required to run the query tool. `NB_API_QUERY_URL` is the [Neurobagel API](https://github.com/neurobagel/api) URL that the query tool uses to send requests to for results.

#### `NB_IS_FEDERATION_API`

If the API you'd like to send queries to is not a [federation api](https://neurobagel.org/federate/), you need to set the `NB_IS_FEDERATION_API` to `false` as it is `true` by default.

#### Set the environment variables

> To set environment variables, create an `.env` file in the root directory and add the environment variables there. If you're running the API locally on your machine (following the instructions [here](https://github.com/neurobagel/api#local-installation)), your `.env` file would look something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set environment variables, create an `.env` file in the root directory 
and add the environment variables there. 
If you're running a neurobagel node-API locally on your machine (following the instructions [here](https://github.com/neurobagel/api#local-installation)), 
your `.env` file would look something like this:
```

```bash

> NB_API_QUERY_URL=http://localhost:8000/

Reviewer: should we add the optional `NB_IS_FEDERATION_API` as well for clarity?

```

if you're using the remote api, your `.env` file would look something like this:

```bash
NB_API_QUERY_URL=https://api.neurobagel.org/
```

:warning: The protocol matters here.
If you wish to use the Neurobagel remote API, ensure your `NB_API_QUERY_URL` uses `https` instead of `http`.

### Manual installation

> To run the query tool, you'll need [node package manager (npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/) and [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the query tool directly, you'll need [node package manager (npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/) and [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/).
```

You can find the instructions on installing npm and node in the official [documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm).

Once you have npm and node installed, you'll need to install the dependencies outlined in the package.json file.
You can do so by running the following command:

```bash
npm install
```

To launch the tool in developer mode run the following command:

```bash
npm run dev
```

> You can also build and then run the tool from the (production) build of the application by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also build and then run the tool from the ([production](https://vitejs.dev/guide/build)) build of the application by running the following command:
```

```bash
npm run build && npm run preview
```

> You can verify the tool is running once you receive info messages from Vite regarding environment, rendering, and what port the tool is running on in your terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can verify the tool is running by watching for the info messages from Vite regarding environment, rendering, and what port the tool is running on in your terminal.
```

> #### Developer setup

Reviewer: Should this be a higher order section? i.e. how to get set up for local dev (npm) vs how to try out the tool (docker)?

Author: No, I think if  `Developer setup` was a higher-order section it would have a lot of overlap with `Manual installation`. it's better to keep it as a subsection so if someone wants to run the tool but doesn't want to contribute, they can ignore this subsection.

Having installed the dependencies, run the following command to enable husky `pre-commit` and `post-merge` hooks:

```
npx husky install
```

### Docker installation

To obtain the query tool docker image, simply run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
docker pull neurobagel/query_tool:latest
```

This Docker image includes the latest release of the query tool and a minimal http server to serve the static tool.

To launch the query tool Docker container and pass in the `.env` file you have created, simply run

```bash
docker run -p 5173:5173 --env-file=.env neurobagel/query_tool:latest
```

Then you can access the query tool at http://localhost:5173

**Note**: the query tool is listening on port `5173` inside the docker container,

> replace port `5173` by the port you would like to expose to the host.

Reviewer: this would need an example I think. Or you replace the host port in the above example with a placeholder name like HOST_PORT - otherwise people will have to remember the order of arguments to use this

- Minimum number of sessions: Minimum number of imaging sessions that participant should have to be included in the results.
- Assessment tool: Non-imaging assessment completed by participant that should be included in the results.
- Modality: Imaging modality of participant scans that should be included in the results.

Once you've defined your criteria, submit them as a query and the query tool will display the results.\
The query tool offers two different TSV files for results:

- Dataset-level results TSV contains: dataset id, dataset name, dataset portal uri, number of matching subjects, and available imaging modalities
- Participant-level results TSV contains: dataset id, subject id, age, sex, diagnosis, assessment, session id, session file path, number of sessions, and imaging modality

The output files can be joined using `DatasetID` as key.

You can refer to [the neurobagel documentation](https://neurobagel.org/query_tool/#downloading-query-results) to see what the outputs of the query tool look like and how they are structured. You can also download the raw example output files [here](https://github.com/neurobagel/neurobagel_examples/tree/main/query-tool-results).

> 

Reviewer: maybe add a screenshot here? always nice to see a tool immediately with no further steps. Or even gif for extra flair?

Author: A screen shot of the tool or output files?
